# Pewlett-Hackard-Analysis
## In this challenge we analyzed which employees were eligable for retirment and which ones were eligable for the mentorship program for the new employees. We want to do this because it'll give us an idea of how many people are expected to leave and how many spots we can fill. It'll also give us an idea of how many of them can mentor the new employees joining. 
# Results
## The first result that we see when we do this is the employees that are the oldest. We got this by retrieving data from both the employees and titles tables. After that we filter it by the birth data and from the image we can see who is the oldest employees. The second result we get is how many unique titles that are leaving. We get to this by using a similar code in the first one and then sort it in ascending order. When we check the image we see a list of all of the job titles. The third result we get is how many from each job title are leaving. We get this result by getting our information from our unique titles table and sort it in desceneding order. When we check the image we see that we have 25916 Senior Engineers leaving, 24926 Senior Staff leaving, 9285 Engineers, 7636 staff memebers 3603 Technique leaders, 1090 Assistant Engineers, and 2 managers all leaving. The last result that we get is who is all eligible for the mentorship eligibilty program. We do this by getting our data from the Eemployees table, Department Employees table, and the titles table. AFter that we filter it by the employees that were born in the year 1965. When we check our image we can see all of the employees that are eligable.
# Summary
## The amount of roles that will need to be filled when the silver tsunami beings is 72458 and it does not look like there will be enough positions to be filled. 
